# devkit Frontend Libs

That repo contain the latest Frontend packages for devkit UI. It will replace and unify the Frontend packages based on
new technologies and updated UX using completely the tailwind

# Table of Contents

- [devkit Frontend Libs](#devkit-frontend-libs)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Contribution](#contribution)
  - [What is the project (devkit Frontend Libs)?](#what-is-the-project-devkit-frontend-libs)
  - [What is the package manager used?](#what-is-the-package-manager-used)
  - [Folder structure](#folder-structure)
  - [What are the different libraries](#what-are-the-different-libraries)
  - [Monorepo](#monorepo)
  - [Naming conventions](#naming-conventions)
  - [How to use the libraries in different projects?](#how-to-use-the-libraries-in-different-projects)
  - [How to create a story using Storybook?](#how-to-create-a-story-using-storybook)
  - [How to run Storybook?](#how-to-run-storybook)
  - [How to run Storybook with Jest watching tests?](#how-to-run-storybook-with-jest-watching-tests)

## Contribution

- ### To add a commit to changeset follow the next steps:

1. Run the following command on the repo root level

```bash
pnpm changeset
```

2. It will ask which packages is included in this release (Check the correct package with arrows and click space to
   include it)

1. It will ask which packages of the selected have major changes, then it will ask for the minor changes, then the rest
   is just patch change.

1. After accepting the summary, a new file will be created `.changeset/<random-name>.md`

&nbsp;

- ### Publishing Package

1. Run the following command:

```bash
pnpm changeset version
```

This will bump the package version and add the changes to `CHANGELOG.md` inside each package

2. Finally, you have to build your package and publish it

&nbsp;

## What is the project (devkit Frontend Libs)?

devkit Frontend Lib is a set of reusable libraries and UI components that we have build based on use-cases. In here, you
find:

1. **Icons**
2. **NextJs Specific Components/libraries** (locale, next-i18next, Broadcasting, etc...)
3. **General Utilities** (time formatters, regex, logger, counter, masking, etc...)
4. **UI Components** (button, slider, checkbox, alert, breadcrumb, card, dropdown, toast, tooltip, etc...)

## What is the package manager used?

We are using pnpm package manager https://pnpm.io/

## Folder structure

1. **/ (root dir):**
   1. **eslint configs**
   2. **npmrc:** Setting the artificatory registry
   3. **Prettier config**
   4. **nx config**
   5. **pnpm packages:** Sets the different packages we have
2. **/.changeset:** Hosts the changeset which is automatically generated by `@changesets/cli`
3. **packages:**
   1. **lib:** Where we have all our libraries
      1. **icons**
      2. **nextjs**
      3. **utilities**
      4. **web (UI components)**
         1. **.storybook:** Hosts the configs for storybook (main, preview, manager, theme)
         2. **src:** Hosts all the various UI components (layouts, header components, sidebar, alert, badge, form inputs, etc...)
         3. **stories:** Hosts all the Storybook stories for all the components, icons, typography, and spacings
4. **shared:**
   1. **eslint-config**
   2. **prettier-config**
   3. **rollup-config**
   4. **ts-config**

## What are the different libraries

1. Icons
2. NextJS
3. Utilities
4. Web (UI components)
5. Shared (eslint, prettier, rollup, and ts configs)

> Please note that all UI specific libraries or components should be placed in either `web` library.

## Monorepo

We use [nx monorepo](https://nx.dev/) to handle all our repos (web, utilities, etc...)

You can see in each repo's `package.json` that the nx-tag is the `@devkit/[lib-name` `nx` will be able to pickup all the libraries through this property.

To make working with `nx` easier, and if you are using VSCode, you can [download this plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nrwl.angular-console) from the marketplace which will provide you a simple user interface to navigate and run different libraries (in the side bar).

## Naming conventions

1. **Files:** camelCase
2. **Components:** PascalCase
3. **Hooks:** camelCase prepended by 'use' keyword to identify a hook
4. **Enums:** PascalCase
5. **Interfaces:** PascalCase prepended by "I" to identify an interface
6. **Types:** PascalCase prepended by 'T' to identify a type

## How to use the libraries in different projects?

To use the library in another project, simply follow the below steps:

1. Follow the steps in [this guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/use-ssh-keys-to-authenticate?view=azure-devops) to setup your SSH key authentication
2. Follow the steps in [this guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/npm/npmrc?view=azure-devops&tabs=linux%2Cclassic) to setup your project and connect to Azure Artifacts based on your Operating System. (you need to update .npmrc within your users project)
3. Create .npmrc in the project root folder and add the below lines to it
   `@devkit:registry=https://pkgs.dev.azure.com/shory-com/_packaging/devkit-frontend/npm/registry/ always-auth=true`
4. In the project you want to use the libraries in, install it with your preferred package manager . ex:
   `npm install @devkit/web@latest` OR `pnpm add @devkit/web@latest`

## How to create a story using Storybook?

First things first, we are using [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) to document all of our components, icons, and
DLS (colors, spacings, etc...).

In order to create a new story for a newly created component, follow the following steps:

1. Declare a template where you can render as many components as you want. ex:
   ```js
   const Template: StoryFn<ComponentType> = (args) => <SpinnerComponent {...args} />;
   ```
2. Declare a variable called StoryMeta which will be picked-up by Storybook to specify the name of the story, the directory in which it should be placed in, which component are you intending to show, as well as a template
   ```js
   const StoryMeta: Meta<ComponentType> = {
   	title: 'Web/Components/Spinner',
   	component: Template,
   	render: Template,
   };
   ```
3. Export the `StoryMeta`
   ```js
   export default StoryMeta;
   ```
4. Finally, you can add as many stories (variation) of the same component as you want
   ```js
   export const Spinner = {
   	args: {
   		size: 100,
   		border: 'border-8',
   	},
   };
   ```

## How to run Storybook?

In order to run Storybook, you need to run

```js
pnpm web:dev
```

Which will eventually run

```js
storybook dev -p 6006
```

> Please note you might need to restart the server (storybook's server) after doing some changed as it doesn't fully support hot reloading.

## How to run Storybook with Jest watching tests?

In order to run Storybook, you need to run

```js
pnpm web:start
```

Which will eventually run

```js
concurrently "pnpm test:generate-output" "pnpm dev"
```
Which corresponds to

```js
concurrently "pnpm jest --json --outputFile=.jest-test-results.json --watchAll || true" "storybook dev -p 6006"
```

> Please note you need to refresh the browser after test changes because HMR doesn't support JSON files

To add a custom test file to the story.
we can specify in the story file like this
```js
Default.parameters = { jest: 'Button.spec.tsx', };
```
> Please note that you don't need to specify it if the test file name matches the story name 
